---
layout: post
title:      "1 New Beginnings."
date:       2020-06-26 00:03:36 +0000
permalink:  1_new_beginnings
---


I'm a big believer in the process being more fulfilling than the journey. I'd like to consider myself a lifelong creative. I've dabbled in almost every form of creativity I can think of. From music, to drawing to a bit of coding prior to attending Flatiron. Creativity is deep-rooted in me and I find that when I'm not creating my energy is low and I genuinely feel depressed. 

I'm not sure if my brain has gotten accustomed to the chemicals released when I feel the rush from the excitement I feel when I figure a problem out. Or if creating has become so apart of my every day life that I lose a piece of my soul when I find myself in a slump or if I go too long without making something. 

Technology has always been fascinating to me. I used to play computer games as a teenager that allowed me to manipulate the game using code (C++ / PAWNo). With every creative endeavor I've embarked on the initial thought that leads me to actually pursuing it is "I don't like how they did that, I would've done it like this". So i found myself playing video games on servers that were fun, but I felt like my ideas would push them further. So I'd reverse engineer the servers, learn their code and find out how to code my ideas into their preexisting code. At 13, 14 years old with no job time was my most valuable resource. My brain may have not developed the cognitive functionality to actually embedded what I was learning, but I'd spend 10-12 hours a day learning as much as I can and just taking peoples codes and breaking them down into pieces I could actually understand. Once I got into high school and had the opportunity to take an IST class as my vocation (I went to a vocational/tech school), I passed up on the opportunity because 1. I felt like I would be designing Myspace pages all day and all I would learn was HTML. The teacher was impressed in my ability to fly through the labs, and he told me how much he'd like if I chose his "shop" as they were called. But I was over coding. 2. I told myself I "didn't want to sit at a desk in front of a computer all day" as a job. Ironically enough, my current job has me doing just that and it's nowhere as fulfilling as developing software or programming a system from scratch would make me feel. I always say God/The Universe has a sense of humor in that you'll end up where you least expect if you miss enough opportunities. I'm a big fan of quotes and one quote that is relevant to my situation is "If you want to make God laugh, tell him your plans." 

Representation has been the word at the top of my mind since the beginning of 2020. While I had decided to join a coding boot camp and switch careers in March, I had been thinking about representation and what it means all year up until this point. As a black man in America I find that work ethic is not only an admirable trait, it's necessary for the things that i want to accomplish in life. Every endeavor I've embarked on in my person life I've given 110% to. I often go on rants about the typical "outs" my people (blacks and people of color) choose as a means of success in this wonderful country. I often say, to myself and others — "If I had met a business man who looked like me when I first came to this country at six, I might have very well been a millionaire by now". I say that because instead of meeting a successful black business owner or real estate agent or what have you, my first sight of success I saw when I moved to America from Jamaica was a rap group by the name of "The Hot Boyz" on TV via their music video for their hit song "Bling Bling". As an impressionable child, I gravitated to the glitz and glamour I saw on that T.V. screen and immediately decided "That's what I'll do. I'll make music." and from that day going forward until now music has been the thing I'm the most passionate about. I also had a stint at wanting to be in the NBA as well, but that was short-lived when I got diagnosed with Juvenile Arthritis at 15 and had to have a total hip replacement. One that had happened, I was all in with music. While music is my first true love and I don't see myself ever actually giving up on it, I spend a lot of time admonishing it as a means of attaining wealth for young black men. Not only is the journey grueling, time-consuming and isolating; the odds are massively stacked against you when pursuing a music career. You have a better chance at winning the lottery twice than becoming the next big hip hop star like Drake or Kanye West. But as I've mentioned before, my work ethic is something I pride myself on. During my now 20 year pursuit of a music career, I've picked up so many helpful skills along the way. I always believed that in order to be a successful artist I'd need to expand my pallet as much as possible so that I'd be able to position myself (differently) than "every other rapper". This was something I learned in high school during the trade portion of school. I spend an equal amount of my time on "Theory" as I do "Execution". I learn the industry in and out, i keep up to date on new trends and practices. Then when it's time to execute, my moves seem effortless and my presentation is nothing short of professional just as the major artists backed by major labels. I spent a year learning graphic design so that I can have a consistent aesthetic. I spent another year in my 20s learning marketing and advertising so that i can brand myself and again, carve out a position for myself in an already over saturated pool of talent. I then spent another year learning web design so that I could create a hub for my fans to go to keep up to date on my latest news, blog posts and music. As I've mentioned before, the odds are high of being a major music act in 2020. However, the same tools that make the market over saturated are the same tools that level the playing field in my opinion. If you told me at 6 years old that I'd be able to be on the same streaming platforms as 50 Cent, Jay Z and Kanye one day; I'd laugh at you. But thanks to streaming platforms like Spotify, Apple Music and Tidal, that is exactly the case today. While many believe that streaming is ruining the music industry, i believe it is helping it experience its biggest growth we've seen and will see for years to come. I'd like to think that through my love for learning, my application of new tools and my skill set I can actually make something of myself in the music industry one day. While I am a big believer of "Be careful what you wish for" and the law of attraction. I've come to grips that success in the music industry for me doesn't necessarily mean I'm the biggest act at the moment or I'm making millions and millions of dollars a month due to my popularity. Success as an artist to me is more so six or seven figures annually, creative control of my art, brand extension and deals to expand my reach as well as the ability to do cool collaborations, and the freedom to create music when I want and how I want without worrying about balancing my music career and my 9-5. That version of success in the music industry is far more attainable and my journey here at Flatiron is simply me adding another tool to my arsenal to make that a reality. After reading my rambling, you may ask what that has to do representation? My persistence and tenacity serve more as a gift to me than anything. But sometimes my stubbornness doesn't allow me to see a bigger picture. Upon some introspective reflection I've decided to pivot once more because I believe my 20s is the decade I use to build the fundamental skills and habits that will carry me through life. With that being said, I believe African Americans are severely underrepresented in the technology field. That has nothing to do with lack of intelligence or even systemic oppression, there's plenty of top tier tech companies that would love to diversify their staff. I believe the reason so few of us actually venture into technology / coding is due to lack of exposure. Rarely if ever do we see the successful black software engineer or the successful black data scientist, all to often do we see the rapper or basketball player. So our initial thought of what it means to be successful as a black person is sports or entertainment. The odds are far less stacked against you if you're in technology. That i do wholeheartedly believe. My pivot into technology is deep-rooted in my passion for learning and experiencing as much as I can during this journey we call life. I love creating things, I love # Enter your title here

The content of your blog post goes here.
